---
title: "A Polyhedral Approach to Least Cost Influence Maximization in Social Networks"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/joco2023.md
excerpt: 
date: 2023-01-04
venue: 'Journal of Combinatorial Optimization'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1007/s10878-022-00971-x'
citation: 
---

Abstract: The least cost influence maximization problem aims to determine minimum cost of partial (e.g., monetary) incentives initially given to the influential spreaders on a social network, so that these early adopters exert influence toward their neighbors and prompt influence propagation to reach a desired penetration rate by the end of cascading processes. We first conduct polyhedral analysis on a substructure that describes influence propagation assuming influence weights are unequal, linear and additively separable. Two classes of facet-defining inequalities based on a mixed 0–1 knapsack set contained in this substructure are proposed. We characterize another exponential class of valid and facet-defining inequalities utilizing the concept of minimum influencing subset. We show that these inequalities can be separated in polynomial time efficiently. Furthermore, a polynomial-time dynamic programming recursion is presented to solve this problem on a simple cycle graph. For arbitrary graphs, we propose a new exponential class of valid inequalities that dominates the cycle elimination constraints and an efficient separation algorithm for them. A compact convex hull description for a special case is presented. We illustrate the effectiveness of these inequalities via a delayed cut generation algorithm in the computational experiments.

[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10878-022-00971-x)

Citation: Chen, C. L., Pasiliao, E. L., & Boginski, V. (2023). A polyhedral approach to least cost influence maximization in social networks. Journal of Combinatorial Optimization, 45(1), 44.